things.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Misc
tagline: Thou ill-formed offspring of my feeble brain
subtitle: An assortment of things I've written or recorded. Probably some pretty high variance in quality (in particular, I won't promise that any slides I put here will be totally followable without accompanying presentation).
permalink: /things/
---

# Surveys / Class Projects

### [Power from Random Strings Survey](/assets/things/power_from_kolmogorov.pdf)
There's a really neat line of work examining what problems can be reduced _resource-efficiently_ to the (resource-unbounded) Kolmogorov random strings; this is a survey of some of the main results / open directions there. Written as the final project for Ryan Williams' complexity theory class.

### [Limits of Preprocessing](/assets/things/preprocessing.pdf)
This is my final project for boolean functions class; it's an attempt at a more friendly presentation of [this paper](https://drops.dagstuhl.de/entities/document/10.4230/LIPIcs.CCC.2020.17), which gives partial progress towards showing that inner product remains hard for $\mathsf{AC}^0$ circuits even after arbitrary preprocessing of both inputs independently.

### [Hardness of Art Gallery Variants](/assets/things/art_gallery.pdf)
The art gallery problem has been shown to be [complete for $\exists \mathbb{R}$](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3188745.3188868); here we give an overview of that result, and give some thoughts on hardness of related problems. Final project for computational geometry class.

### [Quantum Analogs of the Canadian Traveler Problem](/assets/things/quantum-canada.pdf)
This was the final project for my quantum information science class. TLDR: some new pathfinding problem has quadratic speedup with quantum search.

### [Canadian Traveler Problem Survey](/assets/things/canada-survey.pdf)
The reason I was thinking about CTP for that quantum project was because a couple friends and I had earlier written a survey of the (classical) problem for our advanced algorithms class. Most of this is not original research, but should be a reasonably nice introduction to the problem.

### [MIP* = RE poster](/assets/things/mip*-poster.pdf)
This is a poster I made for my quantum computation class, giving a very rough overview of the breaktrough [MIP* = RE](https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.04383) result in quantum complexity.

### [Ramsey Theory Notes](/assets/things/ramsey-notes.pdf)
These are notes from my Ramsey theory class spring 2023 (taught by Lisa Sauermann). They're not especially proofread or anything, but I find myself referring back to them a fair amount, so I put them up on the internet in case they're useful to other people. 

# Slides

###  [Low-Degree ECC Decoding](/assets/things/random_restrictions.pdf) and [Relative Rank](/assets/things/relative_rank.pdf) slides
These are some slides for a reading group I met with fall 2023. The first of these explains the result from [this paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.02870) that $\mathsf{NC}^0[\oplus]$ circuits can't decode error-correcting codes with constant success probability. The second discusses the preliminaries on relative rank and Nisan-Wigderson design polynomials for [this paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.00611).

###  [Intro to Information Theory](/assets/things/GuessWhoEntropy.pdf) slides
Some slides explaining the basics of information theory (entropy, KL divergence, Shannon/Huffman coding) in terms of a game of _Guess Who?_

### [PCP slides](/assets/things/PCP.pdf)
Here are some slides for a presentation I gave for MIT's directed reading program sophomore year. We define the PCP theorem and walks through Irit Dinur's proof.

### [What You Can't Do With Math](/assets/things/impossibility-class.pdf)
This is for a class I taught fall 2021 for high schoolers about a couple of classic impossibility results.

# Music

#### Banach-Tarski

My dad used to sing a version of this song as a "musical ditty for math loving kiddies", so for Christmas last year I put together this full version.
<center>
<video width="60%" height="60%" controls>
<source src = "/assets/music/banach-tarski.mp4">
Your browser does not support the video element. Makes you just wanna tear something in half huh.
</video>
</center>

#### The Scream
I recorded this for my jazz class last spring. I wanted to make something based around augmented 7ths, and it sounded so angsty that I decided to put a spoken-word [excerpt from Edvard Munch's diary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Scream#Sources_of_inspiration) over the solo section.
<audio controls class="audio-embed">
  <source src="/assets/music/scream.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio element. Makes you just wanna scream.
</audio>

#### Vexations
This is a jazz arrangement of [Erik Satie's Vexations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vexations), also for that class. Trying to fit vaguely tonal-sounding chords to this was a bit of a nightmare, but I think the result ended up sounding decent (largely thanks to the jazz combo that performed this, led by my lovely professor Lihi Haruvi on alto sax).
<audio controls class="audio-embed">
  <source src="/assets/music/vexations.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio element. How vexing!
</audio>

<!--
#### Tarjan's Waltz
Ok fine I lied, here's one more piece from jazz class. It's not super polished, but this was me trying to do a waltz. I don't really know why I named it after Tarjan; I think I was just thinking about splay trees while recording it.
<audio controls class="audio-embed">
  <source src="/assets/music/tarjan-waltz.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio element. Why don't you just waltz on outa here.
</audio>
-->

#### Ancylid
This is another class project that I was lucky enough to have sight-read by some [real professional musicians](https://semiosisquartet.com/). I'd never tried to write a string quartet before -- was a fun experience.
<audio controls class="audio-embed">
  <source src="/assets/music/ancylid.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio element. Wicker ancylids, on the other hand, support my love.
</audio>

#### Wollaston
I took a class called "Electronic Music Composition" -- here's an example of the sort of thing we did. The degree to which this counts as music is perhaps open to debate, but I definitely learned some useful DAW tricks as the class progressed.
<audio controls class="audio-embed">
  <source src="/assets/music/wollaston.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio element. This content is only supported in Wollaston.
</audio>

#### Gåte for Døden
I made this in high school as part of an elaborate prank on a friend of mine. It's a bit of a long story, but we were learning some Norwegian together, so I made a website for a fake Norwegian indie band and then hid a string of puzzles in a song that eventually led to a rickroll. The puzzle chain isn't followable anymore, but I still think the song is fun (if you can excuse my terrible Norwegian pronunciation). 

<center>
<iframe width="60%" height="30%" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2bM_pE0vGnM?si=xabL4OibKMH30Hcg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen class="audio-embed"></iframe>
</center>

Commit message:

catalytic fiction and new paper

things.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Misc
tagline: Thou ill-formed offspring of my feeble brain
subtitle: An assortment of things I've written or recorded over the years. Proceed with caution --- I give you no guarantees on quality.
permalink: /things/
---

# Class Projects

### [Power from Random Strings Survey](/assets/things/power_from_kolmogorov.pdf)
There's a really neat line of work examining what problems can be reduced _resource-efficiently_ to the (resource-unbounded) Kolmogorov random strings; this is a survey of some of the main results / open directions there. Written as the final project for Ryan Williams's complexity theory class.

### [Limits of Preprocessing](/assets/things/preprocessing.pdf)
This is my final project for boolean functions class; it's an attempt at a more friendly presentation of [this paper](https://drops.dagstuhl.de/entities/document/10.4230/LIPIcs.CCC.2020.17), which gives partial progress towards showing that inner product remains hard for $\mathsf{AC}^0$ circuits even after arbitrary preprocessing of both inputs independently.

### [Can SOS Prove Circuit Lower Bounds?](/assets/things/sos-project.pdf)
This was the final project for my class on the Sum of Squares method --- it's a survey of a couple results relating to the (im)possibility of formalizing circuit lower bounds in SOS.

### [Testing Permutation Pattern Avoidance](/assets/things/sublinear-project.pdf)
For the final project of sublinear-time algorithms, we gave an exposition of [this paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.04856)'s results on property testing of pattern-avoiding permutations, and made some minor extensions.

### [Hardness of Art Gallery Variants](/assets/things/art_gallery.pdf)
The art gallery problem has been shown to be [complete for $\exists \mathbb{R}$](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3188745.3188868); here we give an overview of that result, and give some thoughts on hardness of related problems. Final project for computational geometry class.

### [Quantum Analogs of the Canadian Traveler Problem](/assets/things/quantum-canada.pdf)
This was the final project for my quantum information science class. TLDR: some new pathfinding problem has quadratic speedup with quantum search.

### [Canadian Traveler Problem Survey](/assets/things/canada-survey.pdf)
The reason I was thinking about CTP for that quantum project was because a couple friends and I had earlier written a survey of the (classical) problem for our advanced algorithms class. Most of this is not original research, but should be a reasonably nice introduction to the problem.

# Other Notes and Slides from Undergrad

### [Ramsey Theory Notes](/assets/things/ramsey-notes.pdf)
These are notes from my Ramsey theory class spring 2023 (taught by Lisa Sauermann). They're not especially proofread or anything, but I find myself referring back to them a fair amount, so I put them up on the internet in case they're useful to other people. 

###  [Low-Degree ECC Decoding](/assets/things/random_restrictions.pdf) and [Relative Rank](/assets/things/relative_rank.pdf) slides
These are some slides for a reading group I met with fall 2023. The first of these explains the result from [this paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.02870) that $\mathsf{NC}^0[\oplus]$ circuits can't decode error-correcting codes with constant success probability. The second discusses the preliminaries on relative rank and Nisan-Wigderson design polynomials for [this paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.00611).

### [MIP* = RE poster](/assets/things/mip*-poster.pdf)
This is a poster I made for my quantum computation class, giving a very rough overview of the breaktrough [MIP* = RE](https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.04383) result in quantum complexity.

###  [Intro to Information Theory](/assets/things/GuessWhoEntropy.pdf) slides
Some slides explaining the basics of information theory (entropy, KL divergence, Shannon/Huffman coding) in terms of a game of _Guess Who?_

### [PCP slides](/assets/things/PCP.pdf)
Here are some slides for a presentation I gave for MIT's directed reading program sophomore year. We define the PCP theorem and walks through Irit Dinur's proof.

### [What You Can't Do With Math](/assets/things/impossibility-class.pdf) slides
This is for a class I taught fall 2021 for high schoolers about a couple of classic impossibility results.

# Music

#### Banach-Tarski

My dad used to sing a version of this song as a "musical ditty for math loving kiddies", so I put this together for him at Christmas one year.
<center>
<video width="60%" height="60%" controls>
<source src = "/assets/music/banach-tarski.mp4">
Your browser does not support the video element. Makes you just wanna tear something in half huh.
</video>
</center>

#### The Scream
I recorded this for my jazz class. I wanted to make something based around augmented 7ths, and it sounded so angsty that I decided to put a spoken-word [excerpt from Edvard Munch's diary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Scream#Sources_of_inspiration) over the solo section.
<audio controls class="audio-embed">
  <source src="/assets/music/scream.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio element. Makes you just wanna scream.
</audio>

#### Vexations
This is a jazz arrangement of [Erik Satie's Vexations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vexations), also for that class. Trying to fit vaguely tonal-sounding chords to this was a bit of a nightmare, but I think the result ended up sounding decent (largely thanks to the jazz combo that performed this, led by my lovely professor Lihi Haruvi on alto sax).
<audio controls class="audio-embed">
  <source src="/assets/music/vexations.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio element. How vexing!
</audio>

<!--
#### Tarjan's Waltz
Ok fine I lied, here's one more piece from jazz class. It's not super polished, but this was me trying to do a waltz. I don't really know why I named it after Tarjan; I think I was just thinking about splay trees while recording it.
<audio controls class="audio-embed">
  <source src="/assets/music/tarjan-waltz.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio element. Why don't you just waltz on outa here.
</audio>
-->

#### Ancylid
This is another class project that I was lucky enough to have sight-read by some [real professional musicians](https://semiosisquartet.com/). I'd never tried to write a string quartet before -- was a fun experience.
<audio controls class="audio-embed">
  <source src="/assets/music/ancylid.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio element. Wicker ancylids, on the other hand, support my love.
</audio>

#### Wollaston
I took a class called "Electronic Music Composition" -- here's an example of the sort of thing we did. The degree to which this counts as music is perhaps open to debate, but I definitely learned some useful DAW tricks as the class progressed.
<audio controls class="audio-embed">
  <source src="/assets/music/wollaston.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio element. This content is only supported in Wollaston.
</audio>

#### Gåte for Døden
I made this in high school as part of a puzzle. The puzzle chain isn't followable anymore, but I still think the song is fun (if you can excuse my terrible Norwegian pronunciation). 

<center>
<iframe width="60%" height="30%" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2bM_pE0vGnM?si=xabL4OibKMH30Hcg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen class="audio-embed"></iframe>
</center>
